Ci/CD Integration guide (#176)
replicatedhq/kots.io: content/vendor/guides/ci-cd-integration.md

---
date: "2020-02-20T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2020-02-20T00:00:00Z"
title: "CI/CD Integration"
weight: "1007"
---

The KOTS CI/CD Integration guide is an advanced workflow that allows you to use a similar workflow to [Kots Starter GitHub Actions](https://github.com/replicatedhq/replicated-starter-kots/blob/master/.github/workflows/main.yml#L21) but for your own internal git repository and CI/CD systems like GitHub, GitLab, CircleCI, TravisCI, Jenkins, etc.

It is broken into three sections:

- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Kubernetes Objects](#kubernetes-objects)
- [Helm Chart](#helm-chart)

## Environment Variables

> This section will assume you've already completed the [Automating Your Workflow](/vendor/guides/quickstart/#automating-your-workflow) and set up a local git repo to manage your application.

Reviewer: This line doesn't really seem to mesh with the rest of the article. Is the goal of this article to get me to a local git repo?

Author: Updated to better reflect what is actually needed, which is the API Token.

- Configure the following 2 environment variables in your CI/CD configuration.

- `REPLICATED_APP` with the App Slug.
- `REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` with the API token.

## Kubernetes Objects

Follow the steps below if you are just working with plain-YAML kubernetes API objects.

- In the root directory of the internal repository add this `Makefile`

```shell
curl -LS https://raw.githubusercontent.com/replicatedhq/replicated-starter-kots/master/Makefile -o ./Makefile
```

> - Make a copy of [manifests](https://github.com/replicatedhq/replicated-starter-kots/tree/master/manifests) directory from the KOTS starter repo and place it in your internal repo's root directory.

Reviewer: what if I already have my manifests in another folder like `k8s` or `deploy` -- does this mean I have to re-organize my repo in order to make it work with kots?

Reviewer: I like that the helm chart section of this guide started with an example repo structure *before* adding the kots bits -- what if we did the same here? Maybe we could assume the manifests start out in a non-standard place (i.e. not `manifests`)

Author: Good idea, updated.

- Include your app specific Kubernetes object yaml files in the `manifests` directory, sub-directories are supported as well.

- Your root directory structure should look something like this
```text
.
├── Makefile
└── manifests
    ├── app
    │   ├── config-map.yaml
    │   ├── deployment.yaml
    │   ├── ingress.yaml
    │   └── service.yaml
    └── kots
        ├── config.yaml
        ├── preflight.yaml
        ├── replicated-app.yaml
        └── support-bundle.yaml
```

- Execute the following `make` command to deploy
```shell
make release
```

- Verify release in [vendor.replicated.com](https://vendor.replicated.com).

## Helm Chart

> The steps below show how to package Helm Templates into a `.tgz` Chart and deploy as a Kots App. This section assumes you've completed the [Packaging a Helm Chart](/vendor/guides/helm-chart) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps below show how to modify a repo containing a Helm chart to be deployable as a Kots App. This section assumes you've completed the [Packaging a Helm Chart](/vendor/guides/helm-chart) guide and are familiar with how KOTS processes helm charts as part of an application.
```

│   └── service.yaml
└── values.yaml
```

- Add the following 2 files, `.gitignore` and `.helmignore`, to the Chart's root directory to prevent cruft from being commited or packaged.

```shell
cat <<EOF >>./.gitignore
kots/deps
kots/manifests/*.tgz
EOF
```

```shell
cat <<EOF >>./.helmignore
kots/
EOF
```

- Make a copy of [kots](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kotsapps/tree/master/helm-influxdb/kots) directory from the KOTS Apps repo and place it in your Chart's root dir.

- Update `spec.chart.name` and `spec.chart.chartVersion` in `kots/helm-chart.yaml` to match your chart.

- In the `kots` directory add this `Makefile`

```shell
curl -LS https://raw.githubusercontent.com/replicatedhq/kotsapps/master/common/Makefile.default -o kots/Makefile
```

- Your final Chart directory structure should look something like this
```text
.
├── .gitignore
├── .helmignore
├── Chart.yaml
├── kots
│   ├── Makefile
│   └── manifests
│       ├── config.yaml
│       ├── helm-chart.yaml
│       ├── preflight.yaml
│       ├── replicated-app.yaml
│       └── support-bundle.yaml
├── templates
│   ├── config-map.yaml
│   ├── deployment.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   └── service.yaml
└── values.yaml
```

> Here is a real world [Helm Chart](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kotsapps/tree/master/helm-influxdb) example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check out a real-world [Helm Chart](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kotsapps/tree/master/helm-influxdb) example.
```

> - Setup your CI/CD to run the following `make` command to deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure your CI/CD to run the following `make` command on push
```

It is broken into three sections:

- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Kubernetes Objects](#kubernetes-objects)
- [Helm Chart](#helm-chart)

## Environment Variables

This section will assume you already have the App slug and API token from the [Automating Your Workflow](/vendor/guides/quickstart/#automating-your-workflow) guide.

- Configure the following 2 environment variables in your CI/CD configuration.

- `REPLICATED_APP` with the App Slug.
- `REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` with the API token.

## Kubernetes Objects

Follow the steps below if you are just working with plain-YAML kubernetes API objects.

- Start from a basic Kubernetes App, which could look something like this inside the `k8s` directory.

```text
.
└── k8s
    ├── config-map.yaml
    ├── deployment.yaml
    ├── ingress.yaml
    └── service.yaml
```

- Make a copy of [manifests](https://github.com/replicatedhq/replicated-automation/tree/master/vendor/nginx-app/manifests) directory from the KOTS starter repo and place it in your internal repo's root directory.

> - Replace the files in `manifests/app` with the files in `k8s`. Sub directories are supported as well, so `k8s` directory can be put anywhere inside `manifests`.

Reviewer: I still think this isn't quite right. Do you think there's a way for me to augment my existing k8s repo without having to move my manifests around?

Author: Sure let me think about this. The thing here is with the Helm chart there is only 1 non-kots.io API file, the `tar.gz`. But with the normal kotsapp there are more than one non-kots app files so its a bit tricky. Lets discuss this further during the FDE standup on Wed.
